You might think, didn't we cover interfaces in the UI/UX section?
Well, we did, but only partially.
User interface is only one of a myriad of interface types,
so I mean any interface or exchange of information your system may need.
And in today's world,
never overlook the interfaces since systems cannot survive without them.
Leveraging interfaces provides an enormous amount of traction in
building a new system or enhancing an existing system.
One of the most common types of the broad range of interfaces is APIs,
application programmer interface.
Uber is a perfect example of leveraging existing interfaces.
It didn't have to build its own mapping,
payment or communication services either.
Instead, Uber is a composite of what it considers the best of those programs,
and more, Google Maps, Braintree for payment,
Twilio for mobile SMS, Oracle, and many more.
Uber was able to quickly connect to these systems using
little pieces of code called APIs.
Therefore,
I want to make the point that the lion's share of interface analysis
you do will be around existing commercial APIs and consuming or
designing internal APIs in your company.
What is interface analysis?
Interface analysis is used to identify the five Ws,
where, what, why, when,
and for whom information is exchanged with another entity.
An interface is a connection between two entities.
An entity can be a person, actor, system, application, to just name a few.
These interface entities can also be referred to as endpoints.
Examples, Joe in accounting.
This would be a screen user interface design.
Now, since we discussed this in the previous section,
I will focus on other interface types in this section.
Google Cloud Billing API, sales database in SQL Server.
So for any new system design and analysis,
I would expect there will be multiple endpoints,
another way of saying interface,
since more and more systems are leveraging cloud services.
Remember, if your new system requirements touch anything,
and I mean anything, it is an interface.
Why use interface analysis?
Because the process of doing this identifies,
defines, and clarifies those interfaces.
Why is the user interface needed?
What's the importance?
And maybe which use case or cases are driving the requirement?
Who will use the interface, the actors?
This helps validate the business cases too.
What information is being exchanged?
Parameters, volume, connection constraints, time of day, etc.
This may help validate your data models.
When information will be exchanged.
Time of day, for example, and how frequently.
This will help validate the business use cases as well.
Where the information exchange will occur.
For example, a centralized data exchange,
like box.com, or a web API interface on a vendor's domain is just two examples.
Again, this will help validate the business use cases.
And a high-level description of how the interface is
currently implemented or should be implemented,
that is connected to and consumed.
This will help determine potential complexities and costs.
So as you can see,
the important reasons why doing interface analysis
will yield constructive results.
As I mentioned,
I will exclude the user interface and user experience
since we covered those earlier.
Here are some examples of what attributes you should collect for each interface.
First, you want to develop an interface template.
I suggest using MS Word or Excel to easily get started.
It should contain all of the attributes about your
interface you need to collect.
For each interface, name the interface.
Describe the function.
Assess the frequency of access.
Document the exchange method of the entities.
And determine initial details of the interface,
such as what's the URL, what's the endpoint itself?
What are the costs, complexities of access,
security, and all those other attributes?
And I am sure you could come up with many more attributes
that would make sense in your environment.
Here's a simple example of an interface template.
On the left we have the Attribute column,
on the right we have a Description column.
We have the interface name, in this case Transportation Portal API.
A functional description,
the Portal API will offer a set of features for the
display and update of rider data.
Okay, frequency of access.
About 100 hits per day.
Exchange method.
The protocol will be JSON.
Interface details.
I have in there a standard call syntax, a call pattern and a response pattern.
So these attributes give you a high-level overview.
It could be handed over to the development team.
They would know a little bit about it and able to get started.
Of course this is a short list and your list should be longer,
include things like pricing, performance,
and other attributes that would make sense in your environment.
There are some great tools to help you analyze the interface,
and here are some examples of them.
Swagger UI, Slate, Apiary, ReadMe.io, Gelato,
ReDoc, LucyBot, Agilo, and I'm sure there's many,
many others.
You want to easily be able to visualize and interact with the API
resources so you can get a good feel on how they work.
Again, this is a short list to help you get started.
Here is an example of one of those products, called Swagger.
Again, I'm not expecting you to read any of this,
but to show you that this tool is a visual representation of something as,
to many, may be a bit mundane, behind-the-scenes API processing.
And just for that very reason, APIs can be very hard to use and consume,
and can take a considerable amount of time to get right.
So a visual tool like this can be invaluable. Again, I'll always emphasize visual tools.